# Single Page Application

If so desired, one can create a React application that qualifies as a **Single Page application** (SPA). A **Single Page Application** is an application that loads a single HTML page and all the necessary assets (such as JavaScript and CSS) required for the application to run. Rather than actually requesting different HTML files from the server, react will swap out the existing HTML on the page with other pre-loaded content to give the illusion of page navigation without actually having to make another request to the server. **React Router** can be used to create the navigation between these different views in React.

So what exactly is the point? Why is creating a Single Page Application "better" than a multi-page application? SPA's tend to perform faster than multipage applications. In traditional multi-page applications, the browser will make a request to the server that is providing the web pages every single time the user wants to navigate to a different page. In general, more requests to the server slows down you application, so this slow in performance can be mitigated by reducing the number of calls to the server. When your application exists as an SPA, the entire application is handed over to the server in its initial request. That way, whenever the user wants to navigate around the application, the browser knows how to swap out the information that is being displayed on the single page rather than having to make a new request to the server.

One consideration that must be made as a single page application scales, however, is how long the initial load is going to take if all of the application's static resources be loaded at once. Often times when a SPA grows, [code splitting](https://reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html) will be used as a strategy to “lazy-load” resources that are not needed immediately. Code-Splitting is a feature supported by bundlers like Webpack, Rollup and Browserify (via factor-bundle) which can create multiple bundles that can be dynamically loaded at runtime.
